JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
A State Department watchdog
criticizes Hillary
Clinton's use of a private
e-mail server and
finds longstanding
cyber-security weakness
dating back to prior secretaries
of state.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also ahead
this Wednesday:
tough words by senator Elizabeth
Warren and
protests against presumptive
Republican nominee
Donald Trump, as candidates push
forward in
the Western states.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Plus, the nearly
70-year-long
study of survivors of Hiroshima
and Nagasaki,
as scientists try to understand
the lasting
effects of the atomic bomb.
EVAN DOUPLE, Radiation Effects
Research Foundation:
The Manhattan Project focused so
much on physics,
and really didn't know very much
about the
biological effects and health
effects in particular.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All that and
more, on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: The debate
over Hillary
Clinton's e-mail practices as
secretary of
state is back on the boil. It
moved there
today with a leaked report from
the department's
inspector general.
The report found that Clinton
ignored clear
directives about using a private
e-mail server.
And she never received approval
to use it
for government business. It says
previous
secretaries were lax about
e-mail security
as well, but the rules were
tougher when Clinton
took office.
MARK TONER, State Department
Spokesman: The
policies, the regulations
regarding the use
of private e-mail have only
really been clarified
in the past several years. Up
until that point,
again, understanding that it
wasn't encouraged
to use personal e-mail, but it
wasn't prohibited.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Clinton has
acknowledged
that, in retrospect, it was a
mistake to use
a private e-mail server. We will
get deeper
into the inspector general's
report after
the news summary.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: Eleven
states have filed suit over a
federal directive
on public school bathrooms. The
Obama administration
has said states must let
transgender students
use bathrooms according to their
gender identity
or risk losing federal funding.
Texas and
10 other states argue the
directive amounts
to a -- quote -- "massive social
experiment"
that flouts the democratic
process.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The man in
charge of airport
security nationwide pledged
today to do something
about lines that are getting
longer and longer.
Peter Neffenger is head of the
Transportation
Security Administration. He told
a House hearing
that the TSA expects to add
nearly 800 more
screeners by mid-June, but he
warned that
still won't be enough.
PETER NEFFENGER, TSA
Administrator: I do think
that we are at a lower staffing
level than
we need to be to meet peak
demands at peak
periods, and we're working the
staffing models
now aggressively with the
airlines to determine
the right number.
HARI SREENIVASAN: This week,
Neffenger ousted
the official in charge of
day-to-day security
operations at the TSA.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In Afghanistan,
Taliban leaders
announced they have chosen their
top Islamic
scholar as leader. Mullah
Haibatullah Akhundzada
is expected to continue a hard
line against
peace talks. He had been a
deputy to Mullah
Akhtar Mansour, who was killed
in a U.S. drone
strike last week. Today's
announcement came
as a Taliban suicide bomber
struck a minibus
in the Afghan capital, Kabul.
The blast left
at least 11 Afghan court
employees dead.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The government
of Israel
tilted further right today, as
Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu named a fiery
ultra-nationalist
to be defense minister. Avigdor
Lieberman
is one of Israel's most
polarizing figures.
At a ceremony today, Lieberman
tried to strike
a softer tone, while Netanyahu
insisted he
is still committed to a peace
process.
JUDY WOODRUFF: France faced a
growing crisis
today, as protesting workers
blocked fuel
depots. It stems from a showdown
over legislation
to make the work week longer and
layoffs easier.
Neil Connery of Independent
Television News
reports from Calais.
NEIL CONNERY: In Paris and
across many parts
of France, the fuel blockades
are having a
growing impact on forecourts.
Drivers' frustrations
are boiling over, as petrol and
diesel stocks
run low. The French government
insists there's
no need to panic-buy, but many
motorists aren't
taking any chances.
MAN (through translator): From
last night
until 1:00 in the morning, I
searched with
my wife for a petrol station.
This morning,
both of our two cars were on the
minimum level
of petrol. And we needed to
drive our children
to school and to go to work.
NEIL CONNERY: The trade union
blockades over
proposed labor law changes have
become a test
of wills with the French
government. Oil refineries
are being targeted, and the
disruption is
being felt far and wide.
The government has been forced
to delve into
emergency petrol reserves for
the past two
days. This was the scene in
Normandy, as one
main route to the ferry port of
Le Havre was
blocked by protesting workers.
Ships carrying oil have been
blocked at sea
off the coast of Marseille, as
the protests
spread.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And to Asia,
where President
Obama wrapped up his visit to
Vietnam today
and headed to Japan. He
concluded with a town
hall meeting in Ho Chi Minh
City, urging young
people to tackle climate change,
and press
for greater freedoms.
Later, crowds lined the streets
as he left
for the airport and a flight to
Shima. There,
he appeared with Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe,
and reflected on his planned
visit to Hiroshima.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
War involves suffering. And we
should always
do what we can to prevent it.
But I am the
president of a nation that at
times is threatened
by very real risks, not
imaginary risks. And
it's important for us to act on
occasion in
order to make sure that the
American people
are protected.
HARI SREENIVASAN: No U.S.
president has ever
visited Hiroshima, where the
U.S. dropped
the first atomic bomb in 1945.
Prime Minister
Abe said today he has no plans
to visit Pearl
Harbor in Hawaii, where Japan
launched a surprise
attack in 1941.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Back in this
country, there's
word federal agencies are
wasting billions
of dollars on maintaining
computer systems
that date back 50 years in some
cases. The
Government Accountability Office
reports it's
eating up three-fourths of the
federal technology
budget. Examples include a
network for nuclear
forces that still uses floppy
disks, and agencies
that rely on a Microsoft Windows
version from
1992.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And Wall
Street rallied
again, on hopes the global
economy might be
stabilizing. The Dow Jones
industrial average
gained 145 points to close at
17851. The Nasdaq
rose more than 33 points, and
the S&P 500
added 14.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
why Hillary
Clinton's e-mail issues are
being deemed more
serious than her predecessors;
backlash against
the VA secretary for comparing
hospital wait
times to Disneyland; what we
know about radiation
70 years after Hiroshima and
Nagasaki; plus,
much more.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We take a closer
look now at
the State Department's inspector
general report
on Hillary Clinton's use of a
private e-mail
server.
Rosalind Helderman of The
Washington Post
has been covering this ongoing
story.
Welcome back to the program, Roz
Helderman.
So, first, tell us, what would
you say the
main findings of this report
are?
ROSALIND HELDERMAN, The
Washington Post: So,
this was a report that looked at
e-mail use
by the past five secretaries of
state, and
it concluded that there have
been systemic
problems in how the State
Department has gone
about preserving public records
over the course
of the tenures of multiple
secretaries of
state.
However, it was particularly
critical of Hillary
Clinton and her use of private
e-mail. It
said, for instance, that, that
use did, in
fact, violate department
policies that were
put in place to ensure
compliance with the
Federal Records Act, public
records laws.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And does it say
that the rules,
the guidelines were clear,
should have been
clear to Secretary Clinton and
the people
around her?
ROSALIND HELDERMAN: One of the
big takeaways
of the report was that the
guidelines had
been not as clear as they should
be going
back over a number of years, and
that in fact
the guidelines and training on
those guidelines
have not kept up with the way
that e-mail
has changed the way that we
communicate.
That said, the report does
specifically say
that the warnings about the
risks of using
private e-mail for public
business and the
discouragement from doing so
have become much
more numerous and pointed and
descriptive
while Secretary Clinton was in
office.
And so, whereas her predecessor,
Secretary
Colin Powell was also criticized
by the report
for using private e-mail, the
dangers of doing
so might, perhaps, have been
more clear to
Secretary Clinton.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, I guess
what I'm what
I'm trying to get at is, is
there any doubt
that the people around Secretary
Clinton -- and
I guess there's no way to know
what she knew
-- but is there any doubt that
the people
around her knew that they were
in violation
of a set of guidelines?
ROSALIND HELDERMAN: They have
said that they
didn't know that they were in
violation.
And one interesting thing is,
she and her
aides have said that she wants
to cooperate
with all these inquiries, but,
in fact, she
didn't sit with an interview
with the State
Department's inspector general,
and a number
of the top aides didn't respond
to questionnaires,
which makes it harder a little
bit to know
what they had in their minds
while they were
doing this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is it known why
they didn't
cooperate? I guess the report
says she's the
only one of the former
secretaries of state
who didn't.
ROSALIND HELDERMAN: That's
right.
The other four or five,
including current
Secretary John Kerry, did sit
for interviews.
The report doesn't provide a
reason why she
didn't.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Roz Helderman,
how does this
contrast with what Hillary
Clinton herself
has said about this whole
business?
ROSALIND HELDERMAN: Well, in
some ways, it
fits with what she has said,
although it takes
a much more critical view of
those things.
For instance, she has
acknowledged that she
didn't seek approval. The report
criticizes
her for doing that, saying that
she should
have sought legal review and had
other people
weigh in on the security of the
system.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And one other, I
think, question
on everybody's mind is, what
about the security
breaches? Does the report get
into what security
was put at risk or security --
what information
was put at risk because of the
fact she used
this private server?
ROSALIND HELDERMAN: The main
point of the
report was to look at
record-keeping and the
federal records law. And so it
specifically
says that it wasn't intended to
look at the
security of the system.
However, it does say two
interesting things
about security. One is that it
just notes
that she didn't provide a full
briefing to
cyber-security officials within
the department
about what kind of encryption
and other safeguards
were in place on the system, and
it's critical
of that.
And then the other is that it
notes that there
were several times where people
expressed
fears that the system might have
been hacked,
not necessarily that it was
hacked, and her
people have said that it wasn't.
But they
expressed fear that it might
have been hacked
and that those potential
breaches were not
reported to cyber-security
officials, which
is another violation of
department policy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Roz Helderman,
just quickly,
am I right that the report says
that Hillary
Clinton, the people around her
took her e-mails
with them when she left office,
didn't provide
a copy of them until a delayed
period of time?
ROSALIND HELDERMAN: Yes, that's
right.
It's quite critical of that,
noting that she
could have -- even though she
was using private
e-mail, which is discouraged,
she could have
ensured that the record was kept
by either
printing e-mails at the time of
her sending
them and saving them, obviously
having staff
do that, or leaving behind all
of her work-related
e-mails when she left the
department in February
2013.
Instead, that process was not
completed until
almost two years later, December
2014, after
the State Department
specifically requested
them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, finally,
Roz, any connection
between this report and what we
know is an
ongoing FBI investigation?
ROSALIND HELDERMAN: There is not
a connection.
In some ways, they're looking at
two different
things. This report looked at
record-keeping
and the Federal Records Act. The
FBI investigation,
from what we know, is looking at
whether classified
material was mishandled, sort of
the security
of the system. That is ongoing.
The FBI director
has said that he feels no
external pressure
to wrap that up, although he
does know that
people are anxious for its
results.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Roz Helderman
with The Washington
Post, we thank you.
ROSALIND HELDERMAN: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And beyond the
details of the
report, there is, of course, the
politics
of Clinton's -- of Secretary
Clinton's e-mails.
And while the issue has followed
her throughout
the campaign on the Republican
side, new protests,
some of them violent, have
swarmed around
the GOP's presumptive nominee.
John Yang reports on the latest
twists and
turns on the campaign trail.
JOHN YANG: At a rally in
Anaheim, California,
Donald Trump pounced on the
State Department
report on Hillary Clinton's
e-mail practices.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
As I say, crooked Hillary
crooked Hillary,
she's as crooked as they come.
She had a little
bad news today, as you know,
from -- some
reports came down that weren't
so good. Not
so good. The inspector general's
report, not
good. But I want to run against
Hillary.
JOHN YANG: A Clinton spokesman
claimed the
audit shows her e-mail use was
consistent
with past State Department
practices.
The candidate didn't mention the
report in
an appearance this afternoon,
keeping her
fire trained on Trump and
remarks he made
in 2007, at the beginning of the
housing meltdown.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
Donald Trump actually rooted for
the housing
crash that cost five million
families their
homes. I'm not making this up.
We called him
out on it yesterday using his
own words. And
you know what he said in
response? Well, he
bragged about what he did. He
said -- and
I'm quoting now -- "That's the
kind of thinking
our country needs."
JOHN YANG: Massachusetts Senator
Elizabeth
Warren, neutral in the battle
between Clinton
and Bernie Sanders, picked up
the theme as
she emerges as one of Trump's
fiercest critics.
SEN. ELIZABETH WARREN (D),
Massachusetts:
But Donald Trump was drooling
over the idea
of a housing meltdown, because
it meant he
could buy up a bunch more
property on the
cheap. What kind of a man does
that? A small,
insecure money-grubber who
doesn't care who
gets hurt, so long as he makes a
profit off
it.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JOHN YANG: At his own event last
night in
Albuquerque, New Mexico, Trump
laced into
Clinton.
DONALD TRUMP: I see this
lowlife, she puts
on an ad, did you know that
Donald Trump was
rooting against housing, because
he wanted
housing to go down, because he
wanted to buy?
And they have got some clip of
me from many
years ago where I'm saying, yes,
if it goes
down, I'm going to buy. I'm a
businessman.
That's what I'm supposed to do.
That's what
I'm supposed to do.
JOHN YANG: But his rally's
message was overshadowed
by violent protests outside.
Demonstrators
threw burning Trump T-shirts,
rocks and other
objects at officers.
Police say they responded with
pepper spray
and smoke bombs. They said
several officers
were hurt, and at least one
person was arrested.
Inside the hall, Trump faced
near constant
interruptions.
DONALD TRUMP: You can get him
out. Get him
out.
JOHN YANG: "NewsHour" special
correspondent
Kathleen McCleery was there.
KATHLEEN MCCLEERY: That was a
woman who was
literally dragged down the
stairs. There was
a man who ripped his shirt off,
and they dragged
him away. And, of course, one
that really
got everybody's attention was a
young boy.
He didn't look like he was more
than 10 or
12 years old, and he stood up
and said something.
I couldn't hear what he had to
say, but, of
course, I heard what Donald
Trump said, and
what he said was that that's the
youngest
protester he's had at any of his
rallies.
DONALD TRUMP: How old is this
kid? How old
is this? Get out of here. Get
out of here.
Still wearing diapers.
JOHN YANG: And again today at
Trump's event
in Anaheim, police and
protesters were out
in force.
The candidate also came under
new scrutiny
on a different front. In
January, he skipped
a Republican debate and held an
event to raise
money for veterans' groups.
DONALD TRUMP: I didn't know we
were going
to raise $5 million. We actually
raised closed
to six, to be totally honest.
Donald Trump
gave $1 million, OK?
JOHN YANG: It turns out Trump
never actually
made good on that donation,
until now. The
Washington Post reports that,
earlier this
week, the New York billionaire
took steps
to send $1 million to a
foundation that aids
families of fallen Marines and
federal law
enforcement officers.
In the meantime, Trump added
more delegates
in Tuesday's Washington state
primary. He's
now just 41 short of clinching
the Republican
nomination.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang.
JUDY WOODRUFF: With more on this
whirlwind
day in politics, we turn to
Susan Page, Washington
bureau chief for USA Today, and
Reid Wilson,
chief political correspondent
for The Morning
Consult.
And welcome back to both of you.
So, let's start, Susan, with
this State Department
inspector general report on
Hillary Clinton's
use of a private e-mail server.
How much political
damage is this likely to do?
SUSAN PAGE, Washington Bureau
Chief, USA Today:
You know, I don't think it's
hugely explosive.
People who like Hillary Clinton
will still
like her.
But I don't think it's helpful,
and it lays
the groundwork for the bigger
report to come,
the FBI report. That
investigation into her
exclusive use of an e-mail
server is still
going on.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you see
this?
REID WILSON, Morning Consult:
There are two
sides of the same coin here.
On the one hand, it's a lot
better for the
Clinton campaign that this came
out in May,
rather than October. It is -- on
the other
hand, though, it reinforces one
of the sort
of fundamental problems that
Hillary Clinton
faces and has faced in her --
most of her
political career, which is
people don't believe
that she is honest and
trustworthy. People
don't believe that she plays by
the same rules.
And that is a real problem when
it come comes
to swing voters. Are the
Clintons throwing
straight? They have just handed
Republicans
and Donald Trump all the
ammunition they want
to make that charge over and
over.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And it looks like
the Republicans
are going to keep talking about
it.
SUSAN PAGE: Yes, I guarantee
that they will,
because this is an issue that
goes to that
fundamental issue of honesty and
trustworthiness.
It is going to be something
we're going to
hear about over and over again
over the next
six months.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But let's talk
about Donald
Trump.
Reid, as we were just reporting,
this rally
he had last night in
Albuquerque, there were
some protesters on the inside,
but protesters
on the outside were throwing --
setting shirts
on fire and throwing them,
throwing bottles.
We have now seen this at several
Trump rallies.
Is this the kind of thing that
could hurt
him, or do people just say, oh,
that just
comes with the territory?
REID WILSON: I think it could
certainly hurt
him.
And it's sort of ironic that
Clinton is giving
Trump and the Republicans all
the ammunition
they need, and Trump is giving
Clinton and
the Democrats all the ammunition
that they
need. We have heard Hillary
Clinton call Trump
dangerous and unprepared to be
president,
unfit for office.
That's what these scenes of
mayhem and violence
look like. We heard from Trump's
campaign
manager a few -- well, campaign
chairman -- a
few weeks ago that he was going
to act more
presidential. I assumed that
meant fewer of
these big, boisterous, raucous
rallies, where
he's kicking protesters out.
Apparently, that's
not the case.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I have heard
some people
say, Susan, though, that this
kind of plays
into the tough guy that Trump
presents himself
as, and really doesn't -- his
followers don't
mind it.
SUSAN PAGE: Yes, I don't think
his core supporters
are put off by this at all.
In fact, I think there is some
risk for Democrats
if you have protests that turn
violent against
Trump. You know, you think about
the anti-war
rallies of the 1960s. Those
often rebounded
against anti-war candidates,
anti-war presidential
candidates like Hubert Humphrey.
Americans have a big tolerance
for protests
that are peaceful. They have a
low tolerance
for protests that turn violent.
Slight risk,
I think, also for the Democrats
here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let's talk
about another
other aspect about what's going
on, on the
Democratic side, and it involves
Donald Trump.
But, Reid, it's a new voice
among the Democrats,
and that's Senator Elizabeth
Warren of Massachusetts.
She's been tweeting a lot about
Donald Trump,
but, yesterday, she was out
making a public
speech, and she was really tough
on him.
Could she become, you know, a --
sort of an
attack dog for Hillary Clinton?
REID WILSON: Elizabeth Warren is
a hugely
important voice within the
Democratic Party.
There is probably one other
person who speaks
for liberals as loudly as
Elizabeth Warren,
and that's Bernie Sanders.
So, if and when Warren is to
come over to
Hillary Clinton's side, her
endorsement will
mean a great deal in terms of
healing the
party. I think this is the --
sort of the
beginning steps of getting
towards an endorsement
of Hillary Clinton, the
extremely likely eventual
nominee.
Going after Donald Trump Sets up
a contrast.
No matter what a liberal voter
thinks about
Hillary Clinton vs. Bernie
Sanders, Hillary
Clinton's a lot better for that
voter than
Donald Trump would be.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you see
the role she
plays?
SUSAN PAGE: She's a great --
this is an example
of how Donald Trump can do what
Hillary Clinton
hasn't done so far, which is
unite the Democratic
Party. Elizabeth Warren has not
yet endorsed
Hillary Clinton.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That's right.
SUSAN PAGE: The two of them
aren't really
close. She's the only woman
senator who has
not endorsed Hillary Clinton
yet. We assume
she will eventually.
But this is an example of how
she can be a
really effective advocate for
Hillary Clinton
without even mentioning Hillary
Clinton's
name, because Elizabeth Warren
has figured
out how to get under Donald
Trump's skin.
You can tell from his responses
that he is
disturbed by some of the
criticism that she
has made.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Yes, he came back
and called
her Pocahontas, making fun of
the fact that,
at one point, she talked about
her distant
and I guess tiny Native American
heritage,
Reid. But Trump doesn't -- isn't
one to let
any criticism lie, is he?
REID WILSON: Yes, although Susan
brings up
an important point here.
There are a few things -- sure,
he will fire
back at anybody over anything,
but there are
few things that really bug him.
Elizabeth
Warren's criticism is one.
Questions about
Trump University have been
another. Questions
about his net worth, especially,
tend to get
under his skin.
I think Republicans never
figured out how
to effectively go after Trump
and undercut
him with his core supporters.
You know, Democrats
only get one shot. They don't
get a whole
bunch of primaries. They only
get the one
shot in November. So they need
to sort of
start experimenting, figuring
out the right
way to undercut his support
among as many
of his core voters as they can,
raise his
unfavorable ratings, make him
unpalatable
to swing voters, and finally to
get under
his skin and make him look
unpresidential.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let's talk,
Susan, quickly
the contest that is still out
there for Hillary
Clinton.
And that is, Bernie Sanders
still very much
competing, the two of them
spending a whole
lot of time this week in
California. They're
going to be voting on June 7.
What does California
look like?
SUSAN PAGE: Well, we think
Hillary Clinton
has a lead there, a significant
lead, not
an overwhelming one.
It's her kind of state, in that
it's racially
a very diverse state. That's
been good for
her. We think she will win in
California.
In fact, she's almost guaranteed
to go over
the top, to just clinch,
numerically clinch
her nomination with the June 7
primary.
The fact is, even if she loses
in California,
she will clinch her nomination
in the California
primary, given proportional
allocation of
delegates. But I think it looks
like she's
going to win. And that will be
important kind
of psychologically, to not have
that last,
biggest primary be one in which
Bernie Sanders
comes on strong and defeats her.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The optics could
be bad for
her if she were to lose. But
it's your sense
that it's looking pretty good
for her?
REID WILSON: That's what the
public polling
has shown. Bernie Sanders sort
of needs an
off-ramp. He needs a reason to
get out of
this race. And losing California
is that off-ramp.
It's going to be really tough
for Bernie Sanders
to say, all right, I'm quitting
after he just
won a bunch of states. There are
four other
states up. At least one of them,
Montana,
South Dakota, those are probably
states that
are going to be better for
Sanders than they
will be for Clinton.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right,
watching it all,
Reid Wilson, Susan Page, thank
you.
SUSAN PAGE: Thank you.
REID WILSON: Yes.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The Department
of Veterans
Affairs is back in the
crosshairs with its
secretary, Robert McDonald,
making some controversial
comments.
We had planned to interview the
secretary
today, but his office called
last night to
say his schedule was now full.
We hope to
have an interview with him in
the near future.
But we take a look now at the
recent controversy
and the persistent problems of
delivering
vets proper care.
Last night, the head of the
Department of
Veterans Affairs posted the
closest thing
to an apology: "If my comments
Monday led
any veterans to believe that I
or the dedicated
work force I am privileged to
lead don't take
that noble mission seriously, I
deeply regret
that. Nothing could be further
from the truth."
The comments Secretary Bob
McDonald is referring
to came Monday morning at a
breakfast with
reporters, where he downplayed
the importance
of measuring wait times for
medical appointments.
ROBERT MCDONALD, U.S. Veterans
Affairs Secretary:
What really counts is, how does
the veteran
feel about their encounter with
the VA? When
you go to Disney, do they
measure the number
of hours you wait in line or the
number -- you
know, what is important? What's
important
is, what is your satisfaction
with the experience?
HARI SREENIVASAN: Reaction was
swift. A visibly-angry
speaker of the House, Paul Ryan:
REP. PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker
of the House:
When the VA's secretary compared
the lines
at his agency to lines at an
amusement park,
we were dumbfounded. This is not
make-believe;
this is not Disneyland, or
Wonderland, for
that matter. Veterans have died
waiting in
line for their care.
Clearly, the secretary's
comments were not
worthy of the veterans that he
serves. But
they're also indicative of a
culture of indifference
at the VA.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Republican
Conference Chairwoman
Cathy McMorris Rodgers:
REP. CATHY MCMORRIS RODGERS (R),
Washington:
When you go to Disneyland, you
aren't wondering
if you are going to live long
enough to make
it to Space Mountain. Clearly,
the VA is not
the happiest place on earth, and
veterans
have died waiting in these
lines; 18 percent
of appointment cancellations go
unfilled.
We can do better.
HARI SREENIVASAN: However,
veterans groups
who have been vocal about
problems at the
VA offered a more nuanced
reaction.
THOMAS PORTER, Iraq and
Afghanistan Veterans
of America: His statements were
certainly
poorly wondered. I don't think
they were they
were meant to do any harm to
veterans, certainly.
I think that he's got a big job
to do, and
we need him to stick in that job
and keep
moving forward with his
department to serve
veterans better.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Thomas Porter
served in
Afghanistan and the Persian Gulf
and is the
legislative director for Iraq
and Afghanistan
Veterans of America.
THOMAS PORTER: He's certainly
changed the
way that the VA is looking at
the problem.
He's been very transparent. He's
been open
with the VSOs, the veterans
service organizations.
And he's making a genuine effort
to address
the problem.
We understand that the wait
lines have been
reduced dramatically since this
scandal first
started coming to light. We want
to keep the
VA going in that direction.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Wait times for
vets to see
a doctor is a sensitive, and
explosive, issue.
The delays and a cover-up cost
the last VA
secretary, retired Army General
Eric Shinseki,
the job in 2014.
After a VA doctor blew the
whistle at a Phoenix
facility, an inspector general
investigation
found that Phoenix-area veterans
seeking care
had to wait an average of 115
days, almost
four months, for a first
appointment; 1,700
veterans were kept off any
official waiting
list, and were at risk of being
lost or forgotten.
Other investigations found this
type of problem
existed at many VA hospitals
throughout the
U.S. More recently, the
Government Accountability
Office reported that the VA's
system for tracking
how long veterans have to wait
for an appointment
was flawed, making it hard to
identify and
remedy scheduling problems.
The VA's network of hospitals
and clinics
is one of the largest health
care systems
in the U.S., with hundreds of
thousands of
veterans in need of care.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
Should the U.S.
soldiers involved in the Afghan
hospital attack
be court-martialed?
Japan
JUDY WOODRUFF: But first what
science is still
learning from the survivors of
the Hiroshima
and Nagasaki bombings.
This week, President Obama
becomes the first
sitting president to visit
Hiroshima.
Miles O'Brien looks at how much
of what we
know about the impact of
radiation comes from
a study about the long-term
effects there.
It's part of our weekly series
on the Leading
Edge of science.
And warning: Some images might
be disturbing
to some viewers.
MILES O'BRIEN: The scientists
who designed
the first atomic weapons didn't
spend much
time researching the long-term
health consequences
of their devastating creation.
EVAN DOUPLE, Radiation Effects
Research Foundation:
The Manhattan Project focused so
much on physics,
and really didn't know very much
about the
biological effects and health
effects in particular.
MILES O'BRIEN: When I met him in
2012, radiation
biophysicist Evan Douple was the
associate
chief of research at the
Radiation Effects
Research Foundation. The joint
Japanese and
U.S. study has been following
the survivors
of the atomic bombings of
Hiroshima and Nagasaki
for nearly 70 years.
EVAN DOUPLE: There isn't
anything comparable
to this kind of study.
MILES O'BRIEN: The work began
almost immediately
after the war, when President
Truman ordered
the creation the Atomic Bomb
Casualty Commission
in 1946.
EVAN DOUPLE: The scientists have
recreated
through interviews and
questionnaires the
locations of where each
individual survivor
was exposed, and so they could
reconstruct
by line of sight what the
radiation quantities
would be at different distances.
MILES O'BRIEN: Ninety-four
thousand irradiated
bomb survivors volunteered to
become subjects.
Another 26,000 who lived in
other Japanese
cities during the bombings, but
were not exposed
to radiation, were included as a
comparison
or control group.
Today, about a third of the
exposed and comparison
subjects are still alive, many
making routine
pilgrimages up a hill
overlooking the once
devastated city of Hiroshima to
undergo medical
exams. Their blood is routinely
analyzed,
researchers on the lookout for
damaged chromosomes
and other signs of disease.
Over the years, they have frozen
thousands
of blood and tissue samples.
EVAN DOUPLE: If that survivor
comes down with
a cancer or a health effect
today, one can
go back into the freezer and
perhaps find
what changed in that individual
that eventually
ended up resulting in a cancer.
MILES O'BRIEN: Researchers here
have published
hundreds of papers documenting
the links between
radiation and its ill health
effects, primarily
cancer. They have written the
book that is
the basis for the standards for
acceptable
radiation exposure.
Among the findings over the
years: Thyroid
cancer and leukemia are the
first to strike.
Solid cancers come 10 to 30
years later. Young
people are more susceptible to
developing
cancer than adults, and women
are more susceptible
than men. Perhaps the most
important, a single
exposure increases cancer risk
for life.
The bottom line? Of 94,000
survivors studied
over 70 years, about 1,000
additional cases
of cancer can be attributed to
radiation from
the bombs.
JOHN BOICE, National Council on
Radiation
Protection and Measurements: So,
the atomic
bomb survivors study, which is a
remarkable
study -- it's the gold standard
in terms of
radiation epidemiology -- it has
limitations,
and one of the limitations is,
the dose was
given all at once.
MILES O'BRIEN: Radiation
epidemiologist John
Boice is hoping to address that
limitation.
He is spearheading a study of
workers from
the Manhattan Project, atomic
veterans who
witnessed atmospheric bomb
tests, utility
employees at nuclear power
plants, and medical
professionals, one million in
all.
Radiation exposure data captured
by the dosimeters
routinely worn by these workers
over the years
is compared with their health
history and
cause of death.
JOHN BOICE: So, when we complete
this study,
that we will be able to say what
the risks
are from these various levels of
radiation.
Are they the same as Hiroshima
and Nagasaki?
Are they lower? Are they higher?
MILES O'BRIEN: Some studies
suggest our bodies
can fight back and repair damage
caused by
low-level, yet chronic, exposure
to radiation.
But no one is sure.
Biophysicist David Brenner is
also hoping
to fill in some of this
uncharted territory.
He is director of the Center for
Radiological
Research at Columbia University
Medical Center.
DAVID BRENNER, Columbia
University Medical
Center: Any level of radiation
can produce
DNA damage, which ultimately can
produce a
cancer.
MILES O'BRIEN: But when the
doses get very
low, scientists are hard-pressed
to quantify
the link between radiation and
cancer. There
is just too much cancer out
there already.
Four in 10 Americans will
eventually battle
the disease anyway.
DAVID BRENNER: So how do you
detect a very
small increase in that 40
percent? And if
there was an increase from 40
percent to 40.1
percent, how would we ever
detect that? And
that's really our problem.
MILES O'BRIEN: So could there be
a line below
which there is no risk?
DAVID BRENNER: But what we're
trying to do
is to figure out, what is the
best way to
extrapolate the risks that we
know from high
doses to low doses? In order to
do that, we
really want to know the
mechanism on how exactly
does radiation produce cancer.
MILES O'BRIEN: Brenner employs a
particle
accelerator to try and find some
answers.
In experiments, he aims
high-energy protons
at a single cell.
DAVID BRENNER: What we want to
do is to be
able to expose a cell to
radiation, but not
expose all the neighbor cells to
radiation,
because that's actually what --
the real-life
situation at very, very low
doses.
MILES O'BRIEN: This isn't just
an academic
pursuit. The atomic bomb
survivors study is
the basis of risk estimates for
everything
from doses in medical care, to
work rules
for radiation workers, to
evacuation orders
in the wake of a nuclear power
plant meltdown.
But these rules, which can
affect so many
lives in so many devastating
ways, are based
solely on educated guesswork. In
January 2015,
the U.S. House passed the
low-dose radiation
bill which would provide funds
to begin a
large study. But the bill
stalled in the Senate,
frustrating scientists who
believe the nation
that unleashed the nuclear age
is obligated
to never stop trying to fully
comprehend its
long-term impact.
Miles O'Brien, the "PBS
NewsHour," Hiroshima,
Japan.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In October
2015 an American
AC-130 gunship pummeled the
Doctors Without
Borders hospital in Kunduz,
Afghanistan, hitting
what the crew believed to be a
Taliban fighting
position.
The plane rained artillery and
other fire
on the facility, killing 42
people, despite
frantic calls from the group,
known by its
French acronym, MSF, to stop the
attack.
Last month, an Army
investigation found there
was no intent by the Americans
to destroy
the hospital, either by the air
crew or the
American special forces on the
ground who
were calling in for fire. The
probe found
that it was a targeting error
born of confusion
and miscommunication in the fog
of war.
Sixteen soldiers were
reprimanded, but no
criminal charges were filed.
But a new report in "The New
York Times" magazine
by Matthieu Aikins of the Nation
Institute
casts doubt on the motivations
of the Afghan
troops who told the Americans
that the hospital
was a Taliban stronghold.
I spoke with Aikins yesterday
and with two
former military attorneys.
I began by asking the reporter
what may have
motivated this attack.
MATTHIEU AIKINS, The Nation
Institute: From
the extensive reporting that we
did starting
from November, as well as
documents that are
buried in the military's
redacted report,
there's evidence that Afghan
forces may have
provided an exact description
that matched
the hospital as a target,
meaning that they
intentionally targeted the
hospital, leading
to U.S. forces perhaps
unintentionally striking
the hospital as a result of that
description.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, why would
Afghan forces
want to strike a hospital?
MATTHIEU AIKINS: There's been a
long-simmering
tension between MSF and the
Afghan government,
basically a collision between
two different
world views, MSF, which sees
itself as a neutral
humanitarian medical
organization that treats
all sides to a conflict,
regardless of who
they are, and Afghan forces that
have resented
MSF treating what it views as
its enemy.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So is there a
widespread
mistrust?
MATTHIEU AIKINS: What we found,
you know,
when I went to Kunduz, was a
resentment and
a mistrust of MSF on the part of
the Afghan
forces. They told me they
thought that MSF
was supporting the Taliban.
And this, you know, later led to
what turned
out to be false beliefs that MSF
actually
had been taken over and there
were Taliban
leadership inside the hospital
at the time
it was struck.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You have read
the official
military account. You have done
your own reporting.
Are there discrepancies?
MATTHIEU AIKINS: I think that
what's unexplained
in the military's report, what
they elide
in the report is that the
AC-130, the gunship
that struck the hospital, after
its navigation
systems failed, it then relied
on a visual
description of the target that
was given by
the special forces ground
commander.
And that description, as the
military admits,
came from the Afghan forces. The
military
basically asked the Afghan
forces what they
wanted to hit.
And while the coordinates for
the other target,
you know, the intelligence
headquarters, were
passed on, those were correct
coordinates,
they were passed on much earlier
in the evening,
around 6:00 p.m., according to
the military,
so that 1:00 a.m., an hour
before the strike,
when the military goes back, and
there is
some confusion because of this
failure of
the navigation system, and they
ask the Afghan
forces, what should we be
hitting here, the
Afghan forces pass up a
description that distinctly
resembled the MSF hospital and
in no way resembled
the intelligence headquarters.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now, according
to the MSF,
they call it -- they describe it
as an uncontrolled
operation in a crowded area. Is
there evidence
of that?
MATTHIEU AIKINS: Yes, I think
this is a very
crowded city. It's Afghanistan's
fifth largest
city.
And the fact that they're
blindly striking
essentially a target in a
crowded area raises
questions of recklessness and
negligence.
But we actually go further than
that and suggest
that the Afghan forces may have
intended to
deliberately target the
hospital.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You also cite
different
correspondences that members of
the military
who were involved in the
operation had with
members of Congress or others.
What was their
view on what was happening at
the time, and
did that change after the fact?
MATTHIEU AIKINS: Well,
absolutely.
We were provided with an e-mail
from one of
the special forces troopers on
the ground
who said that, you know, there
were Taliban
inside. They had kidnapped the
doctors, and
they had taken it over,
basically suggesting
that the American forces on the
ground had
come to believe the false
reports that, you
know, Afghan forces told me they
believed,
that they provided to American
forces, that
the hospital had been taken over
by the Taliban,
which is very troubling.
And, again, it's something that
is not really
contained within the military's
report or
addressed by their
investigation.
HARI SREENIVASAN: One of the
members of the
MSF told you at the end of your
story about
the possibility of ever working
in a place
where so many U.N. Security
Council members
are involved in active
conflicts.
MATTHIEU AIKINS: Well, you know,
this has
been a trend around the world.
You have had
strikes against MSF facilities
in Syria, in
Yemen, in Sudan, and in other
areas.
The fact that MSF is being
targeted is an
extremely worrying development
and one that,
you know, has been taken to the
Security Council.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Matthieu
Aikins joining
us from Athens, thanks so much.
MATTHIEU AIKINS: My pleasure.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We take a
deeper look at
the U.S. military's
investigation of the attack
on the Doctors Without Borders
hospital in
Kunduz and whether the probe
should have gone
further with retired Marine
Corps Lieutenant
Colonel Gary Solis. He served as
a company
commander in Vietnam and later
as a judge
advocate and military judge
during his 26-year
career. He now teaches the law
of armed conflict
at Georgetown University.
And retired Lieutenant Colonel
Jeffrey Addicott
spent 20 years as judge advocate
in the Army
and, for part of that time,
served as a senior
legal adviser to special forces.
He is the
director of the Center for
Terrorism Law at
St. Mary's University School of
Law in San
Antonio.
Gary Solis, I want to start with
you.
The military admits a series of
cascading
errors that led to this tragedy.
What was
the most egregious to you?
LT. COL. GARY SOLIS (RET.), U.S.
Marine Corps:
To me, the most egregious was
that the pilot
was unsure of his target for an
hour as he
circled overhead, and that he
later fired,
despite not -- apparently not
being all that
sure of his target.
Even two minutes after he
initiated the first
volley, he radioed JTAC on the
ground asking
for confirmation that he had hit
the target.
He still was unsure that he had
hit the correct
target, and, to me, that's the
most egregious
of a series of errors that were
made.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Jeffrey
Addicott, your response?
LT. COL. JEFFREY ADDICOTT (RET).
U.S. Army:
It's 2:00 in the morning, the
fog of war.
Again, the report found that
there was no
intentional conduct on the part
of the American
forces. So, yes, it was a
tragedy. It's a
horrible tragedy, and it
shouldn't have happened,
but it did happen.
Our toolbox is not Anglo-Saxon
criminal law.
It's the law of war that we look
at when we
judge these types of things.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Jeffrey
Addicott, staying
with you for a second, there
seems to be a
distinction between intent and
negligence.
Just because you are not
intending to do something,
does that let you off the hook
from being
negligent in trying to do your
best not to
get something wrong?
LT. COL. JEFFREY ADDICOTT: Well,
it doesn't
let you off the hook, but we're
talking about
whether there's a grave breach
of the law
of war, which has a different
set of requirement
than, for example, other
breaches of the law
of war, simple breaches.
I don't see a gray breach of the
law of war,
primarily because, yes, mistakes
were made,
communication breakdown. And if
it's true
that we had faulty intelligence
from the Afghans,
then the investigation should be
reopened.
But that still wouldn't, you
know, alleviate
the report here that we have
indicating no
intent on the part of the
Americans to target
this particular facility.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Gary Solis, I
saw you shaking
your head a couple of times
there. If you
were prosecuting this, how would
you do it?
LT. COL. GARY SOLIS: There is
negligence,
and then there is culpable
negligence.
In other words, if the
negligence is so significant
that it becomes more than mere
simple negligence,
then you have a prosecutable
case. But, to
my mind, the fact that he fired
anyway, despite
the fact that he had lost his
guidance system,
that his aircraft navigation
system had previously
gone down, that his video
antenna was gone,
that he was unsure of the
target, those things
combined, to me, raise a
colorable case of
culpable negligence, which in my
mind should
have been decided by a military
jury.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And Jeffrey
Addicott, why
not a military jury? Why not a
courts-martial,
instead of the legal process
that took place?
LT. COL. JEFFREY ADDICOTT: I
don't think it's
necessary.
We had three generals from
outside the theater
come in. We had interviews by 65
witnesses,
3,000 pages of investigation.
Lots of judge
advocates higher in rank than
Gary and myself
looked this thing over, mulled
it over. And
I think they came up with the
right conclusion,
no intent and, therefore, you
know they decided
to handle it at a lower level,
which is in
accordance with the law of war.
I'm not going to second-guess
them.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Gary Solis,
did this investigation
do the best that it could? The
MSF says, listen,
we wanted an outside
investigation. It doesn't
make sense for the very people
who committed
the crime to be investigating
it.
LT. COL. GARY SOLIS: I don't
argue that it
didn't do the best -- the
investigator didn't
do the best that he could.
I simply disagree with his
conclusion. And
that is that, in this situation,
given the
circumstances of which the
aircraft commander
and his sensor operator were
aware, they went
ahead and fired on a target of
which they
were not sure.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Jeffrey
Addicott, why not?
Why not have a jury take a look
at this?
LT. COL. JEFFREY ADDICOTT: The
moment of absolute
certainty in combat never
arises.
If we're going to wait and hold
that standard
to soldiers, we're just going to
sit in a
foxhole and never shoot, because
I'm not quite
sure that I have got the right
thing. The
law of war doesn't require that.
And if it
did, we might as well just pack
our bags and
leave now.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Gary Solis,
what about that
idea, that, basically, that,
unfortunately,
we can't have a judge authorize
every bullet
fired?
LT. COL. GARY SOLIS: I have been
in combat.
I have called in supporting
fires from AC-130s.
And you're never positive, but
the law doesn't
require that you be positive.
And it does
allow for negligence, in which
case, if it
was simple negligence, I would
agree. But
I simply believe that, given the
series of
mechanical failures in the
aircraft, and the
indecision of the pilot even
before, even
after he fired indicate culpable
negligence.
LT. COL. JEFFREY ADDICOTT: I
would agree if
the building was marked, but the
building
wasn't marked. These people
didn't mark that
facility, and we can't expect
these people
to do the Monday-morning
quarterback, look
over their shoulder, be
hypersensitive about
it.
Their obligation was to mark the
building.
I'm using my military language,
but there
was no marks, no red crescent on
there. We
can't hold our soldiers to this
supercilious
standard.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Jeffrey
Addicott, the MSF
is going to say, listen, or they
have said,
we gave you, the military, the
GPS coordinates.
We gave it to you a few days
before. We gave
it to you just a couple of days
before. What
else could we possibly do? And
we were actually
flying a flag?
Yes, it was 2:00 in the morning.
And we're
the only ones with the lights on
in a city
that has no power. What else
could the MSF
have done to protect themselves
in this case?
LT. COL. JEFFREY ADDICOTT: Have
a reflective
device that's on the roof that
has the red
crescent onto it. I mean, they
could do that.
They didn't do it.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And, Gary
Solis, what about
the idea that we heard from the
reporter that
there might be ape different
motive behind
this, that the Afghan forces
that were there
have this kind of mistrust, and
they might
think that, hey, you know what,
this is a
place where they actually are
harboring Taliban
leadership, and this should be a
fair place
for us to go after?
LT. COL. GARY SOLIS: I think the
report by
Matthieu Aikins, if it proves to
be true,
could provide evidence that
shows that the
indecision was mere negligence.
In other words,
it was excusable, given the
circumstances.
But, so far, what we know is
what he did and
what he reported -- that he, the
pilot, reported
in the investigation, which, of
course, I
have not read; 3,000-pages long,
I don't know
if it's even been released in
full to the
public.
But, yes, I think that that
report could provide
evidence on behalf of the pilot
and the sensor
operator on the plane.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Jeffrey
Addicott, what about
that?
LT. COL. JEFFREY ADDICOTT:
Real-time information
on the ground that this is the
target, I mean,
obviously, the person that is
providing that
false information needs to be
prosecuted.
But that overrides. Then the
pilot could say,
well, I have certain information
from the
ground, and I'm assuming that
they're our
allies, and I'm assuming it's
correct information.
So I'm going to go ahead and
target and fire.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Jeffrey Addicott,
Gary Solis, thank you, both.
LT. COL. JEFFREY ADDICOTT: Thank
you.
LT. COL. GARY SOLIS: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally, a
"NewsHour" Essay.
Biologist Sheila Patek has faced
criticism
for her research on mantis
shrimp and trap-jaw
ants. In recent months, members
of Congress
have called her studies a waste
of taxpayer
money.
Tonight, she explains how
dismissing her work
misses the aim of scientific
research and
discovery.
SHEILA PATEK, Biologist: Some
years ago, I
presented my lab's discoveries
to a group
of leading thinkers and public
figures.
We discovered that mantis shrimp
use hammers
equivalent to the mass of two
toothpicks and
move them with the acceleration
of a bullet
to pulverize thick snail shells.
We discovered
that tiny trap-jaw ants close
their jaws with
100,000 times the acceleration
of a sprinting
cheetah.
I expressed the wonder of these
discoveries,
as well as their fundamental
significance
to physics, evolution, and the
limits of current
engineering capabilities.
A prominent lawyer from Nigeria
who was in
the audience that day approached
me a few
days later. Her first words to
me were, "Your
research disgusted me with such
waste, studying
trivial and useless problems."
In that moment, she had voiced
my most vulnerable
thoughts: that the science to
which I would
dedicated much of my life was
actually pointless.
But she added, "I realized
something important,
that science is about discovery,
not just
about solving human problems."
She then spoke a phrase that has
stuck with
me over the years. She said, "I
want what
you have for my country."
In her country, Nigeria, there
was simply
no infrastructure for this type
of discovery-based
research. In fact, many
solutions to humans'
problems began in a scientist's
laboratory.
Did you know that some of the
most significant
medical breakthroughs for the
human brain
began with research on sea
slugs?
The value of my work came under
attack again
when Republican Senator Jeff
Flake featured
it in a Wastebook. That's a
partisan report
that highlights what some in
Congress see
as wasteful government spending.
They ridiculed
a research project in my lab
that showed how
mantis shrimp use their lethal
weapons to
resolve conflicts without
killing each other.
But if you think about it, this
is a fundamental
question for any animal or human
system that
has lethal capabilities. In
response to the
Wastebook attack, I was invited
to present
my research on Capitol Hill.
Senator Flake came to the event,
and I spoke
to him one on one. I told him
the story of
one of the many unanticipated
paths from my
lab's discoveries to human
applications. I
explained how the
extraordinarily intense
impacts of mantis shrimp hammers
inspired
engineers to make new materials.
One day, this might result in
lightweight,
impact-resistant sports helmets
and military
armor. He actually seemed
engaged. So, I asked
him, "Did any of my research
seem worthwhile?"
Senator Flake said yes. He was
especially
interested in the novel
engineering products.
These fundamental discoveries
and their potential
for translation are why my
research program
is funded by the Department of
Defense and
the National Science Foundation.
However,
engineering-related applications
are not the
primary reason we do this
research.
The nature of discovery is that
it is impossible
to anticipate what you will
find. That is
discovery. Discovery-based
research is most
fruitful when new knowledge is
sought for
its own sake.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
online right
now: New clues to the Earth's
early atmosphere
may be trapped in fossilized
bubbles in ancient
lava. And scientists say the
findings could
redefine our search for life
beyond Earth.
Read more on our science page.
All that and
more is on our Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Tune in later
tonight on
"Charlie Rose": British novelist
Julian Barnes.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
On Thursday, get a front-row
seat for a new
music variety show live at 9:30.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening. For all of us at the
"PBS NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.